Thank you very much, everyone. Again, we continue with the teaching of the religious kindness,
very gentle teacher of his Holiness Jyabhi Dunu, Jyabhi Dunu is teaching, and of course,
Jyabhi Dunu is teaching, is teaching, essence teaching of the greatest teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni,
as well as the Gaurabhima Sambha, and all the linear masters of India, and all that,
putting into simple instructions so that we can understand by Jyabhi,
the new beings. And that teaching, we went on a very really detailed, and then thoroughly according
my cover, to try to bring up your kind of more clarity of your teachings or your study,
and your knowledge of the Dharma, or sometimes, in some cases, trying to replace your memories of
the
teachings that you received from many great masters and teachers, and also reading the books that
we
went. And that is what really also teaching is, what Jyabhi Dunu is teaching is. So in this way,
again, we're going through that, and we went through everything, kind of in the frame,
trying to make more kind of like practical way, more technical way, and portray every our practices
into three categories. The first one is beginning noble, and then second is the principle noble,
and third is concluding nobles. That is generally, every of our practices should follow with that.
Just not just the practices, but every aspect of the teaching that what we learn in the Buddha's
teaching, Buddhism. That means, whether you're studying the Buddhism, whether you're contemplating
on the teaching of the Buddha, whether you're practicing in meditation on the teaching,
each of those put in this frame of these three nobles, beginning noble, middle noble, and
concluding nobles. That is what then really teaching the practice makes perfect. It comes so
beautiful. As a great teacher, Buddha Hijatyamuni himself said, that beginning good, middle good,
ending good. All the excellent voting, excellent when you're contemplating,
excellent result when you practice meditate. It comes beautiful. Everything will come
perfectly. We're not never going to feel disappointed by that. We are perfectly beautiful.
So therefore, that's what we really follow as highlighted by the great master. In that way,
we went at the beginning time, we went beginning good. Again, we went all those things. I'm not
going to feel now more about that. And the middle one is the practices. Practices, when you come to
the practices, what are the practices? That means what you learned, now what you learned from the
teachers or from your books. Now you're putting that into the action, not just leaving that as
intellectuals on the brain, observing to the heart. That is really the practices. So practices,
we discussed about four renowned Sahaja Mahatma talks and then taking raffles and developing the
bodhicata. That's what we discussed. And now, developing the bodhicata, bodhicata, we went again,
oh, we're going still, going little bit details. Again, each point stops. And reaching bodhicata,
we went very kind of really, but essential point, trying to catch the meaning, the essence meaning
that we can catch. And as my capabilities, I kind of reminded to all of us. Then we came to the
actualizing bodhicata. Actualizing bodhicata, there's a number of ways of performing the activity
of the bodhicata in the Buddha's teachings. In the teachings, the bodhicata, bodhicata was
activity. It's like all human-like activities, but all can summarize into six paramattas.
That's two great teachers in the teachings said. So with that, we followed a Kagan, followed the
six paramattas. Still we are following them, six paramattas. Among the six paramattas, we went
first four paramattas. And today we are going to still the fifth paramatta, which is dhyun
paramattas. Now dhyun paramatta is the meditation. That means the first three paramattas, such as
generosity, morality. Patient is more physical, outreaching the bodhicata activities.
And then your effort is the fuel engine to pulse, or is pulse behind. That is to all the paramattas
that we discuss too. Now is the fifth. Fifth is more related with mind now. So it's not physical,
but it's more mind. Mind is so powerful. Mind is a ruler of everything. Our body, our speech,
our perception, our conception, all is ruled by our mind. Mind. And mind is instrumental.
We will discuss it. Mind is the source of all samsara and nirvanas. Not just only the ruling,
temporary ruling. It rules everything. Samsara and nirvana. So we take care of our mind.
Then we are taking care of everything. If we take care of the mind perfectly,
then our generosity paramatta will come so beautifully. Our morality paramatta will come
so beautifully. And our patient paramatta will come so beautifully. Now all will fall
because of the mind. And therefore, mind is so important. For that reason, so many teachings,
what great comparison, the wise or the omniscient teacher, Buddha taught, really so many teachings,
everywhere, all the time, because it's so important. So, so, and therefore, again,
for that reason, this dhyana is that strictly directed. And in order to do dhyana, dhyana,
daily practice of concentration, the first, the most important is we have to be hermitage,
hermitage, our thought. In a hermitage, what any teaching says, we went through that,
there is true hermitage, the outer hermitage, inner hermitage, or physical hermitage and the
mental hermitage. That's what we went through. And that order to highlight that, to bring that,
great master Kamala Khyala highlighted those six points. We went those six points. I also listed
yesterday to those names that you know. Those are the cause, conditions, supporters of to actual
izing
our beautiful concentrations. Yeah, those six are, is a condensate or the elaborated way of the
both hermitage, physical hermitage, mental hermitages, both. Now, above that, in the Mahayana
teaching, said above that, hermitage from the self-important attitudes. That is the Mahayana's
teaching. Both the dhyas is, is the old others are more important than our self. That's really the
practice, actually, of them, both each other's, or both the self's. So therefore, in the teaching
said,
the hermitage from the self-important minds, or in the Tibetan he said, "Rando Yibzike Tokwale Vem
ba"
is hermitage from that. That, so that is really our will. When we are hermitage, our physical,
mentally those hermitage as women, but also same time, as much as we can do hermitage
or retreat from self-important attitude, self-important as much as we can. That is both
each other's activities. Now, what have to do with this? Now we're going to meditate.
A little meditate, I've already mentioned as Kamalachala, green mask Kamalachala dimension,
those six points. Then I went five obstacles, or the mistakes of the meditations. Then I went
yesterday five supporters of the, support of five that will put a five, clear way of the five
obstacles of meditation that I went yesterday. Listed those of one, up and others. I listed that.
This is not a amtoki, it is teachings. Teachings. That is the Buddha teaching.
That is the practice for all the great masters. Now, so that means everything is kind of organized,
allocated under our controls of the knowledges, or within our radar of the knowledges. Knowledge,
our understanding, now we begin to do the practices. Now we begin to do meditating.
Other to do meditation, they are always in the teaching set. Set, first we should deal with our
bodies. Body is so important. Everything, body is related with the mind, the mind is related
with body. They are in a way now, present time, interdependent. So, in a way, mind is, in a way,
residing with its body. Body is, in a way, a resident of the mind, or the house of the mind,
or the room of the mind. Body is. So therefore, there are strong such connections.
Connections. For that reason, in the teaching set, taking care of the body is so important,
or when we do the practices. What that means, taking care of the body, that means we should have
beautiful, correct postures. Those are in the teaching set. Postures are so important.
One, how they say, they say, if body is balanced or straighted, our channels will be straighted.
When channels are straighted, our wind are straighted. When our windows are straighted,
our mind will be straighted, calmer, or straighted. In other words, if the body is balanced,
it will balance the channels, or the nervous systems. If the nervous systems are balanced,
it will help. Wind is balanced. The energy, our movement of the wind is balanced.
And when wind is balanced, mind will be balanced. When mind will be balanced,
it will bring clarity. Clarity of the mind. It will shine beautifully. So therefore,
they are all in a way connected, not in a way they are connected.
It is like interdependent co-ordination. They are all connected. So therefore, physical is very,
very important. In order to do that, in physical postures, very popular, renowned in the Buddha's
teaching, it is called seven postures of the Buddha Veda Veda Kannas. That's the really teaching
seven postures of the Buddha Veda Kannas. So I will list, of course, you all know this.
Basically, I will list that again. That's seven postures of the Buddha Veda Kannas.
And the postures in the teaching say, we should have nice cushions. Cushion, that is,
and where we're going to put our bottom, that side is a little higher, and where we're going
to put the knees, that side is a little lower. So that means exactly the same as very standard,
popular, saffu, futons. Those are, I believe, the Japanese languages, those things. That is
standard. So your body, that your, when you sit, our bottom is a little high, our front is lower,
lower. So that is a question. In the teaching say, it is square of the two elbows,
square of the two elbows. So that means about two pieces, or maybe two and a half pieces of the
length that is square, and then put that something kind of small, something that was
half, let it higher than futon, so that our body will become, when we sit down, sit down,
it will be, let it higher. So that is the cushion. Explain. Cushion, where you're going to stay.
And then, of course, this is, always in the teaching mentioned, is where you sit down on the,
on the floor. But somehow, of course, we have difficulty sitting on the floor,
due to our physical trouble. Then, of course, we can do, again, sitting on the chair there.
But I'm, I'm going to extend that instructions. So we can put sitting on the floor.
Once that happens, then, close the legs. Close the leg. That is true.
Vagal posture is completely crossed. You see the Buddha sitting on the lord's and sun and moon as
cross, vagal cross. That is, so you, you know, that is vagal cross. But then it's semi-vagal
cross, as we said, most of the time on the floor. That is semi-cross. Semi-vagal cross, cross legs.
So that is sitting on the cross leg is one of the seven postures of the Buddha Virajanis.
Once you sit there, in the back spines, straight up, straight up as arrows, or even sometimes heard
as the conti-shell rings, as the ring of the conti-shell erector straight up. So back spines,
put straight up. That is second postures, postures. And third posture is extending the
elbows or the shoulders, shoulders and elbows, extend this, extend this. So that is third.
Fourth is in palms held together right below neighbor centers. As you see meditation postures,
Buddhas or the Amitavas, you see that. That is known as economic motherhoods. Putting that.
And that is all, sometimes those great meditators do, both palms put on their knees. Not this way,
but palms don't work. And sitting, or back means both hands are up touching gestures.
As a great teacher, Buddha Chakra Muni, before his reaching enlightenment, he touched his
right palms or right hand, toward the earth, known as earth-touching gestures. So both palms
are earth-touching gestures. This is also known as, in the Nyingma teaching, many times mentioned,
relaxing mind, mother of the relaxing of the natural mother states. Many times we see
the stage of kimba or the tankas are in that hand meditators. Relaxing
mind, mother of the gesture of the relaxing mind and the natural states. So those are,
that is pith. And sixth is, pith is, and then the next are straight up, just slightly bending.
So that means what? It's not straight, not leaning backward, nor is kneeling like too much forward.
Just write a chord lined up with the spines. That is the pith.
Pith, sixth is, looking down toward the tip of nose, eyes are semi-closet or semi-open.
Opens. That is sixth posture. And then seventh posture is, moths are just naturally closest,
or just like lips are just touching naturally as it is, and the tip of the
tongue are touching the upper root of the jaw. And it's really keep normal as it should be,
or as it's yours. Not yet. That is seventh posture of the Buddha Veda Jhana,
which is very popular in the Buddhism. And that is standing and stops us, too.
Also, in the teaching method, this is the extraordinary postures of the Buddha teachers,
Buddhism. It's the basic foundation of all the, basic foundation of the posture of all the,
those tumma and yoga practice of the inner centers. This is what really all started. That's what it
is.
So now what it does? In the teaching said, it will balance everything. It will balance,
as I already said, channels. Channels keep normal positions as it should be. Should be.
Just natural positions. And then because of that, it will affect immediately the energy or the wind
will be very, very balanced. Naturally. And wind is very much control of all our systems.
In the teaching said, it has many aspects of the wind, related with four or five winds,
related with five elements. So it will balance all those element-bound winds, the moving force of
the elements, of the physicals. When that happens, mind will be balanced. Mind will become more
calm,
peaceful. That what does in the teaching said, it will immediately help to reduce the strength and
turbulence of the conceptions or the emotions. Emotions are five negative emotions. The enduring
emotions, attachment emotions, anger emotions, jealous emotions, arrogance emotions. It really
will balance the teaching. It will subside them. With that subside, whatever does, the wisdom,
the hidden quality of the nature of the mind will shine so beautifully, so nicely. Also,
it will bring more clarity in the mind. Because of that clarity, less kind of turbulence of the
meditations. So it really will break, so that it will breathe calm and peaceful steps. So that is
really the postures in the teaching said. That is, whenever you have physical troubles sitting on
the
floor, on the cushions or the cross legs, sitting on the chairs. Sitting on the chair, as many of
us
do, do. But trying to keep the rest of the postures as the seven postures. So that means six post
ures,
or seven, five postures. Trying to keep that. That postures. So that is, in the teaching what
is said, when you sit down, sit. What is important? What is important? No uncomfortable. In the
teaching
said, when you sit down on the cushion, cushion the three principles. Principles, comfortable,
spaciousness, and relax. That is three principles of the way you sit down, or in the cross legs
with
seven postures. Comfortable, spaciousness, spaciousness, and relax. Relax that med, relax all our
bodies.
Relax our muscles. Relax our chin, and it's just kind of, just so become as gentle in peace,
as it should be. More just as everything kind of flows. It's only, all everything is kind of
felt down in its own sports. There's no tensions. No kind of like postures, all that. So those are
three principles, principles. We call it where we are, have good sitting on the postures, seven
postures of the Buddha where we are with others. So that is really the physical way there. Now,
when we sit down, now what we do? Now that means, that in the teaching said, both we should really
bring up, what's called, bring up if you know, you know, do those breathing, that breathing
purificatory exercise. If you know, if you receive instructions, breathing purificatory exercise.
And that is, somehow if those don't know, in the teaching also said, the simplest one is exhale,
exhale.
Do three times. Exhale, that air is coming from the mouth, as well as to nostrils.
Just three times. Very gently. Inhale gently, and exhale gently.
Many times in the teaching also said, when you exhale, don't have to open mouth widely.
Keep normal, simple way, and in exhale very gently. When you do that, what is concentration?
I'm talking simple ones. You need more instructions. Many of you know, you can do those too.
And now, as I'm saying this, it's just the simplest way. Two, just like three, exhale, slowly,
gentle,
that. So that means, you're not sending, breathing, exhale, immediately, stop. Gently exhale.
So three, in the teaching, what I said, when you do this exhales, what is concentration?
Many take in the teaching said, so that you're releasing all the bad energies,
bad energies, negativities, obscurations, disease, sicknesses, broken samayas, broken commitments.
Any day that we can happen, not just only now or this lifetime, but from the biggest times,
those all kind of like negativities, obscurations, obstacles,
breaking samayas, breaking commitments, that means breaking vows, any negativities,
that all this is really went out and went out completely, clayed away, completely out.
Do that three times. I say, gently that. Once that you don't, now is time to bring up the great
devotions. As I said many times, and you all know that, devotion is the sunlight to grow,
the result of the fruit. Also devotion is not just sunlight, but devotion is sunlight
together with miracle glows. It is, if you add miracle glows with sunlight, just a moment of that,
really then it will boost. Feel precious, feel happy, what devotees, happy, joy,
appreciation, precious feelings. As I said the other day, and you all know, I mean it's not
something I say that, feel precious, the lineage is precious, teachings are precious, situation
is precious, circumstances are precious, and life is precious, time is precious.
This is not just talking, it's true, you think, not kind of talking and believing, believing,
nothing like that, isn't it? All these precious things are together with us, our sight,
our favor, how fortunate, how wonderful, how beautiful, what glorious time we have,
what beautiful time we have, really feel happy, kind of deep of happy and joy, joy. Then feel the
presence of your teaching, any teaching said that, but if you particularly don't have teaching,
feel
Buddha Shatyamuni. Buddha Shatyamuni is our teacher. Oh, Guropeyama Sambhava. Guropeyama Sambhava
is
embodiment, it shows all the teachers of the past, present, and futures. Everything comes
together as one single state, as Guropeyama Sambhava. All the past Buddha, all the present Buddha,
and all the future Buddha. And the Buddha's notice that lineage master, all that come together in
one single state as Guropeyama Sambhava, that is right in front of our space, your spaces,
spaces, and the rainbow body, Hong Kong rainbow body, and we act, the all the college of the
Buddha's complete, what are those qualities, power of the compassion, power of love, power of
kindness,
power of the wisdom, that all combined together, in the form of Guropeyama Sambhava.
If it is right in front of us, as rainbow body, and looking to us with eye of love and compassion,
concerning, caring, and welcoming thoughts. In front of that, again, feel precious,
happy, and joy. How wonderful, how beautiful. Really, if you're sizzling devotion,
the sizzling devotion, illuminating joy and devotions, bring up that. As I said, and you all know,
with all the devotions, realization, not world bloom, easy. It's really in the teaching set.
And witnessed by all those great masters, read life stories. With all devotion means we don't
have too much appreciations. We are kind of in skeptical words, dark and hesitation. That is world
of duality, world of ego cleanliness. Have I used another word, world of darkness? There is hardly
light or shine, easy. It's dark, cold, ice, and gets twisted. And then it becomes darker and
darker. But when you have the devotions, eliminating everything, and lighten up our self, then it's
really beginning to grow. All that. So therefore, with beautiful thought, and then do the calling
lama pass. And if you don't know the calling lama pass, just feel that. The gracious teacher,
or the Guru Pima Sambha, you who embodies all the buddhas and dharmas and sangas and enlightenings.
That you can embody, embody with all the kindness of the buddhas and bodhisattvas, enlightenings,
leading account, masters, came to get it. I pray to you. May I have the perfect realization
of the Viva Shana in the Shama meditation. May I have the perfect realization of the
pre-opera, the beginning of the Zogchik 2 realizations. May I have the perfect realization
of the subcontinent living of the Thoggar realizations. May I reach enlightenment within
this lifetime in order to benefit for all living beings. Really sincerely, openly, yearning,
looningly. Pray. You are now, we are developing spiritual realizations.
We are different realizations. We are not lingering in stock with the samsara-nautilus.
We are opening ourselves. We are breaking down the barriers of the ego-clinging, self-importance,
mingling with ourselves with leading masters and bodhisattvas. As we talk about bodhisattvas,
we say, "I follow you, Buddha and bodhisattvas. Whatever you did, I will do."
That was really we said. That was we said yesterday three times. For example,
maybe we talked about renewing our bodhisattvas. Today, we are, or each session when you do the
meditation, you're renewing that. Reactivating that. Rewatering, you're taking care of your
blend of bodhisattvas. But what we saw to target us, or you saw. That is what it is.
Really with praise. And then when we do those of praise, and blessings are coming,
sunlight of the blessings of the Gurbayama from Gurbayama sambhava, in the form of many lights,
white light, red light, red, blue, green, multiple lights, and beings of light to you and to all
the
beings. Completely blessed. And finally, Gurbayama sambhava dissolved that into light
and moved to your mind. And relaxing in that status for short times, or whatever your times.
Then, if you have the brave book, kind, there is Mundo praise, poor, boneless praise.
So, poor, non-sessions, praise. As his only union with teaching, as like short Mundo, which is so
condensate, condensate praise. What if I can't directly translate it into English? What is it?
It's translated beautiful in that. Said, impalatable, lama, you who knows.
The favorable conditions in the body is too difficult to obtain, but I got.
That is really what's said. Even though they did not say, the favorable condition of human
birth is too difficult to obtain, but I got, what I got, I'm adding. But it's true, we got.
Even though it's so difficult, we got. Good. But everything is bound to die.
Everything is permanent, impalatable, bound to die. But I am still light. How precious.
How beautiful it is. And all the cause and effect, the cause and effect are inevitable.
Or the resolve is inevitable. I'm going to follow with that, understand.
We did confirmation with that. And the samsara has a lot of difficulties, challenges. But I'm going
to
learn, grow from these challenges. It is my joy to walk in samsara because I taught the body to
the values, what is to benefit all the sentient beings. And the teaching said, what great master
Chandideva said, as long as samsara existed, may I remain that long in samsara and benefit for all
the living beings. May that I remain. And in the teaching said, also said, when you remain in the
samsara, when you have the great bodhicata in your heart and mind, you're not going to feel any
pains
or sufferings because your marital activity will keep so strong your vitality of the body.
Your realization of the understanding of the absolute truth will become so vastly big, there is
no sufferings. Sufferings are transformed into great blessings. So therefore, even you see in the
samsara, when you have that realization, but that attitude in your mind, it is going from garden to
garden, up from park to park. It is wonderful. So who will be tired and bold to benefit all the
sentient beings? Since there is so much benefit and so much resolve, so many good things happening.
That's really the teaching said that. So that dows are the relief. We don't talk, this whole
renunciation of thought is the anchor of the practices, anchor practices. But in the teaching
said that devotion is the head of the mid practices. Head, head, but four renunciation,
four is the anchor of the practices, anchor of the meditation. What it does, when you have that
devotion in the four renunciation report, it will keep our self more gentle, peaceful, more
practical.
Don't move to the earth. We're not caring why the ego clings, self-important, those like,
they are those arrogance. Become humble, simple, more practical, more common sense.
Truly we can mingle with our fellow sentient beings, beings, and also blend in. That is what
great teacher is, great teacher, Buddha Heptaman taught. With that, then those four, those, and
then after that, then do the meditation. Then do the meditation of the Chama the meditation,
and Vibhachana meditation, or meditations. And apply those, what I listed, those,
avoiding those five obstacles, and use the antidote of those five supports. Why I list it,
list it, that we went through those. Then practice, so relax. Bring up the occasionally,
bring up more joy, more appreciations, more bodhicitta, more devotions. Go on, and on.
Then we are developing, we are advancing, we are really flying on the vastness of the Dharma.
What is the benefit of all the living beings? That is known as really practicing of the Dharma,
and practice of the bodhicitta activities. And of course, I go let more details, of course,
you all know that, but I go those, there are more details of the concentrations.
Meditations, again, to continue tomorrow, we go all the way. Thank you very much, again,
for your own participation, and thank you very, very much to everyone. Thank you.
And now, we begin our healing practices.
And we will begin our practice.